# EDA-on-Airbnb-Housing-Review-Data

Simple EDA using the open data from insideairbnb.com/get-the-data.html 

REPORT 


I took the first hour processing the data so that I can gain more insight, some basic feature extraction steps. Using the summary listings csv,
I checked for anomalies that are way above the percentile ranges, such as a max value of in the price column indicates anomaly 17746, just as 1125 minimum_nights as these are too far from the 75 percentile which indicateas the data may need anomaly healing. I also plotted the pairplot on the summary data as doing it on the actual data is way too memory consuming. There are a few simple observations that can be made on that. Availibility column plotted against number of reviews show a parabolic pattern indicating that people are more interested in either fully available housing or just one night of housing. Pricing behaves paralel to availibility in that sense indicating that this demand recognized and impacted the prices. I dropped the columns with url info or too many missing data (over 80%). I label encoded the string type columns to be able to draw correlations. I determined a target KPI that is the review scores rating and also creating one of my own by multiplying sqrt(number of reviews) * scores and I checked how other variables interact with these two. I created my own target as well because checking the rating alone can cause misleading singular sampled values. And I did not want the number of reviews impacting a lot as it diminishes after a point. So I used a simple formula to combine these two columns into a rating with confidence.  Description column ended up being slightly correlated with the reviews which can be explained by the fact that short descriptions achieve lower click rates and therefore lower customer preference. 

Moving on with the correlogram, features that are highly correlated(over 0.1 pearson coefficient) with our target KPI, review rating and confident review turned out to be host-related features, and amenities. Grouping the reviews by hosts yield the success of hosts on sales. This list can be used to adjust the commisions and create the optimal reward system for he hosts. Checking the best 3 hosts in the list shows that these hosts are superhosts which is natural. Superhosts are prefered over others and they also outperform the others which is a causation in both directions. In addition, host experience has a noticable positive correlation with ratings which was expected. Moving on with coordinate features, these points can be plotted on the london map and it can be used to form customer-spesific suggestions. Such as the algorithm can tell people that there is a much better reviewed place that is not that far away from their desired destination. This can increasing the satisfaction linked to the location ratings. The scatter plot was used with 1000 samples due to memory and graphics processing limitations. Another observation is that high number of amenities cause a better rating, implying that customers want fully itemized places rather than empty places. So the hosts can decide to indicate more eminities which would bring more profit. Review scores rating column is highly skewed which shows that people who rated the experience are more likely to be the ones that were happy. This is not actually what we want since the information about why people are unhappy is more important than why they are satisfied in terms of improving problems. Cleanliness seems to be the bigger issue among other factors which can be prioritized. A counter-intuitive result is that high host_acceptance_rate does not yield positive feedback, just the opposite indeed: perhaps hosts should be more selective as they cause bad matches by excepting anybody.




Notes for further EDA:
Some ideas that can be implemented are as follows: Amenities and Host Verification Type columns can be one hot encoded and can be checked which ones are mostly wanted by customers and those amenities and verification methods can be provided in the future. Obviously there are a lot data in the form of written text which should be analyzed in terms of sentiment, emotion etc. to extract more feedback from customers as well as getting more information from variables like description.  An advanced method could be indicating photos as well using models like CNN’s to figure out more effective house and host photos.
